# EXPERIMENT DESIGN
**Date**: 20260211_0012

# Experiment Design

## Hypothesis
H0: DMs with 'Value First' do not get three times more replies compared to those without it.

HA1 (alternative): DM threads containing the phrase "Value First" receive 3x as many responses on average, relative to similar posts that don't contain this text. 

(Hypothetical Hypothesis)
H0: DMs with 'Value First' do not get twice or more times longer replies compared to those without it.

HA2 (alternative): DM threads containing the phrase "Value First" receive 3x as many responses and/or have an average response time that is at least two-thirds of all other similar posts. 

(Hypothetical Hypothesis)
H0: DMs with 'Value First' do not get more replies compared to those without it.

HA2 (alternative): DM threads containing the phrase "Value First" receive 3x as many responses.


## Evidence Required
To test this hypothesis, we need access to publicly viewable posts from different platforms such as Twitter or Instagram. We also require a large amount of data for accurate testing and results.
1) Number of replies (including both direct DMs + public comments)
2) Average response time

For DM threads only: 
3) Timestamp when the first reply was posted
4) Total number of users who replied to this post, including indirect as well as direct responses. For example, if a person responds directly in an Instagram thread with 12 people commenting on it indirectly through public comments and that includes replies from their friends (which are not publicly viewable), we don't count them.

## FASTEST EXPERIMENT
To get the most accurate results for this experiment without spending too much time or resources to conduct, follow these steps:

1. Select a sample of DM threads with 'Value First' in 10 public Instagram posts that received at least one direct reply.
2. Use an app like Scrapy to find similar DMs from other users (i.e., not directly replying back). You may select up to ten different types or categories for comparison.

For each type, get the following information:
1) Number of replies
3) Total number of public comments and indirect responses 
4) Timestamp when these threads were posted

Repeat this experiment with 10 Instagram DM posts that did NOT have 'Value First' in their DMs.
5. Calculate how many times as often it takes for a thread without the text to receive an average equivalent response time (e.g., if post A received replies within five hours, but no other public comments were posted until ten days later on another day B). We must also consider indirect responses.

If we can get 10 pairs of similar posts with different DM texts that are statistically significant in their results. Then we'll be able to calculate our confidence level.


## METRIC
1) Number of replies (including both direct DMs + public comments)
2) Average response time

For a single thread: Count how many times it takes for the average number of responses received by threads containing 'Value First' compared with similar posts without this phrase. We must also consider indirect as well as publicly viewable social media platform data.
3) Timestamp when these DMs were posted
4) Total number of users who replied to DM thread, including direct and public comments.

5) Calculate how many times more often it takes for a post containing 'Value First' compared with similar posts without this phrase in terms of average response time.


## DECISION RULE

If the calculated confidence level is above 80%, we can conclude that our results are statistically significant. If not, we'll need to conduct additional experiments and collect further data.

1) More than two times as often receiving direct replies (including public comments)
2) Direct DM threads with 'Value First' contain on average twice or more responses compared to similar posts without this phrase.
3) Indirect social media platform DMs posted in the last six months receive 80% of their total number of users replying through either a private message OR publicly commented replies.

If at least one out of these conditions is met, it means that our hypothesis holds true. Otherwise, we must conclude there isn't enough evidence to support H0 and HA1 for this experiment.

---
STATUS: READY FOR EXECUTION